The President:
Hi, everybody.
In the coming weeks, we face
some important decisions about
how to pay down our debt in a
way that grows our economy and
creates good jobs -- decisions
that will make a real difference
in the strength and
pace of our recovery.
We began this year with
economists and business leaders
saying that we are
poised to grow in 2013.
And there are real
signs of progress:
Home prices are starting
to climb again.
Car sales are at
a five-year high.
Manufacturing is roaring back.
Our businesses created 2.2
million jobs last year.
And we just learned that our
economy created more jobs over
the last few months than
economists originally thought.
But this week, we also received
the first estimate of America's
economic growth over
the last few months.
And it reminded us that bad
decisions in Washington can get
in the way of our
economic progress.
We all agree that it's critical
to cut unnecessary spending.
But we can't just cut
our way to prosperity.
It hasn't worked in the past,
and it won't work today.
It could slow down our recovery.
It could weaken our economy.
And it could cost us
jobs -- not just now,
but in the future.
What we need instead
is a balanced approach;
an approach that says let's cut
what we can't afford but let's
make the investments we
can't afford to live without.
Investments in education
and infrastructure,
research and development -- the
things that will help America
compete for the best
jobs and new industries.
Already, Republicans and
Democrats have worked together
to reduce our deficits
by $2.5 trillion.
That's a good start.
But to get the rest of the
way, we need a balanced set
of reforms.
For example, we need to lower
the cost of health care in
programs like Medicare that
are the biggest drivers of our
deficit, without just passing
the burden off to seniors.
And these reforms must go
hand-in-hand with eliminating
excess spending in our tax
code, so that the wealthiest
individuals and biggest
corporations can't take
advantage of loopholes and
deductions that aren't available
to most Americans.
2013 can be a year of
solid growth, more jobs,
and higher wages.
But that will only happen if
we put a stop to self-inflicted
wounds in Washington.
Everyone in Washington needs
to focus not on politics but on
what's right for the country;
on what's right for you and
your families.
That's how we'll get our
economy growing faster.
That's how we'll strengthen
our middle class.
And that's how we'll build a
country that rewards the effort
and determination of
every single American.
Thanks.
And have a great weekend.